1. Introduction:
Kyle gives introduction about the course. He starts the course from a very basic level assuming that listeners have zero knowledge about javascript.

2.Kyle's Work:
Explain's his background. Makes an interesting comment about mindset in industry: "You will see lots of people in this industry that take the habit that all I need to do is learn just enough to get this one feature done so my boss is happy, and then I don't go any further". He continues "In fact, out industry rewards that type of mindset."

3.Introduction to programming:
Really basic concepts are discussed like: High level language, source code and syntax.

4.Statements:
In a computer language, a group of words, numbers and operators that perform a specific task is a statement.
Ex: a = a * 2;
Someone in chat room comments: "Wow the very beginning”.

5.Expressions:
Statements are made up of one or more expressions. An expression is any reference to a variable or value, or a set of variables(s) and value(s) combined with operators.
Example: (a = ((b) * (2)))

Talks about operator precedence in javascript.

6.Executing a program:
Talks about executing/running of a javascript program. Explains about how high level language instrutions are converted into low level language. There is a javascript engine that does this conversion.
Talks about the difference between interpreted language vs compiled language.
Compilation has more than one pass through your program.
Example:
a = 2;
2();
In an interpreted langauge, line 1 is run first and then see that line 2 has an error and throw an error.
In a complied language, first pass is not executing the program, its understanding the program. Checking whether the program is valid. So it would flag line2 as problem before ever running line1.

Javascript is a compiled language. Myth:Lot of people think Javascript is an interpreted language.

7.Practice Coding:
Explains how to get to javascript console in chrome and run it there.

8. Input and output:
Talks about alert(comes from the browser not javascript), console.log and prompt.

Javascript Syntax:
9.Operators:
Talks about how javascript operators work.

10. Values and Types:
In javascript there is no difference between using single quotes and double quotes to represent strings.
var a = 42;
a holds a number type.
var a = "42"
a holds a string type.
Explicit conversion.
a = 42;
a = String(a);
b = Number(a);

In javascript variables donot have type, values have type.
So a donot have any type the value 42 is of type number.

Implicit conversion:
var a = 42;

console.log(a);

a = a + ""

console.log(a);

You can see a subtle color difference in console number 42 will be blue and string 42 will be black because of their type.

Like final in java we have something called const in javascript ES6.

For example
const a = 42;
a = 10;

It either silently fails or throws an error depending on the strict mode.

11.Code comments:
Explains the importance of code comments.
Two types of code comments.
Single line comment //
Multiline comment
/*
*/
Comments should never say what. Comment says why or how.
